= Vampire =

Vampires are beings that live off of the essence of others. They are able to
exist for centuries if their food supply continues to.

Contrary to popular legend, Vampires are not evil, nor are they needlessly
cruel. They do what they have to to survive. In humans, a similar trait is
present in their relationship with livestock. As livestock is slaughtered
so humans can thrive, so humans are occasionally "harvested" so that vampires
may.

Their signature thirst for blood is not a constant desire - merely something
needed on occasion to replenish their own supplies. Without it, they can become
anemic and weak, because a side-effect of the spell they were enchanted by
prevents their blood cells from reproducing quickly enough to maintain a healthy
level.

==== Vampire-Human relations ====
Vampires do not see humans as mere livestock, however. They were once humans
themselves, remember their times as humans, and participate in human culture.
They do so in secrecy, for their safety depends on it, and their lives depend
on being able to obtain blood.

They hide their true natures while living among humans, for they are feared as
'unnatural,' or even 'demonic,' and have historically been persecuted for their
affliction. They are regarded by a significant portion of the human population
to not even be humans any longer, but cruel imitations of their former selves
animated by dark magics.

Vampires have occasionally tried to prove that this is not the case after being
discovered in attempts to defend themselves, but this has a high failure rate.

It is impossible for one to truly understand the consciousness of another, even
between two humans, and so the theory that they are no longer who their bodies
identify them as cannot be truly disproven.
At some point, humans would have to take the vampires at their word, and many
are afraid to do that.

Nevertheless, well disguised vampires may live relatively normal daily lives, if
they so choose, hampered only occasionally by their need of blood.

==== The Curse ====

Their spell (or curse, as it is seen my many humans) is transferrable to humans
and some other species by repeated bites, sharing needles, or sexual encounters.
All of these infection vectors are thought to be related to the sharing of
bodily fluids, leading some of the less religiously-minded population to suspect
that their blood is the carrier of the spell. They cite the low blood
reproduction rate as evidence that the blood is supplying the energy to
maintain the spell, and thus does not have enough energy left to replicate sufficiently.

The spell's origin is unknown, but vampires have been documented since near
the beginning of recorded history.

[in progress]

==== Abilities ====
Part of why vampires are so feared is their mastery of magics. Nearly all
vampires, after becoming afflicted, exhibit some magical abilities. Several -
like the ability to turn into a fog, seem to be natural abilities that become
instinctually controllable. Other abilities include:
 * Night vision - Vampires are particularly good at seeing in low light.
 * Hypnosis - Usually limited in time and power. Mostly used to 'suggest'
              actions to an unconfident or nervous individual. Thought to
              require eye contact.
 * Flight -   Full vampires have bat-like wings that they disguise magically
              in the presence of humans. This enables them to glide for short
              distances and travel more quickly than unaided humans.
 * Strength - While they can be outclassed by some more 'fit' humans and
              many beasts, magical and not, vampires naturally have a greater-
              than-average strength when compared to humans of similar build.


Others - like control of elemental magics - are typically learnable by normal
humans, although the time and effort needed is typically far greater than for
a vampire. Where humans need to learn to detect magical currents, vampires
seem to have an intuitive knack for it, and there is some evidence to indicate
that some humans have intentionally become vampires out of frustration with
their difficulties mastering magic as a shortcut.



== Weaknesses ==
Vampires have several weaknesses:
 * Sunlight -  The sun is not a deadly foe for Vampires, but intense sunlight
   makes them uncomfortable and they get sunburns and tans extremely easily.
   The light of a full moon can reverse this tanning, as can avoiding sunlight
   for several days.

   Many vampires choose to wear sunblock to prevent this tanning, but they
   still feel a level of discomfort on bright days and are often more prone
   to anger than they would be in overcast weather or the night.

 * Holy water - Holy water which has been blessed by a truly virtuous clergyman
   is proven to cause severe burns to vampires. In the past, it was not
   uncommon for clergymen suspected of undermining the church to have their
   faiths tested by the use of holy water blessed by them on captured vampires.
   When blessed properly, holy water causes visible swelling and reddening of
   the skin, and if not cleaned away will eventually start dissolving the skin
   of the vampire, similar to sodium hydroxide on human skin.

 * Sodium hydroxide - Vampires still have the skin of humans, and therefore
   are burned by sodium hydroxide exactly as quickly as a human would be.



== Reproduction ==
Vampires are not known to be capable of reproducing sexually, in the
traditional sense.

New vampires can be created by repeated intercourse with a human over a
short period of time - the human gradually gaining vampiric qualities and
eventually becoming a "mature" vampire  and capable of transforming
others.


== Physical Attributes ==
Vampires largely look humanoid, but they have some distinctive features:
 * Longer than average, sharp canines - Vampires suck blood using their
   canines. They do not have true 'fangs,' but they are somewhat prominent
   in their mouths.
 * Skin - After transformation, vampires typically have paler skin
   than before, due to their lower blood levels. People who had dark skin
   do not suddenly have white skin, but a more pallid complexion than before
   is typical.
   This complexion returns to its old human one for a period after
   sucking blood. It can also be masked by tanning in bright sunlight, although
   most vampires feel uncomfortable enough in the sunlight to not do this
   purposefully.
   Additionally, their body temperatures are somewhat lower than normal for
   a human, and so their skin usually feels chilly to the touch.
 * Wings - see 'abilities.' These are typically masked magically or by choice
   of garb. This is one reason why the stereotype of vampires wearing cloaks
   has become prevalent in human culture - it serves a dual functional purpose
   of shielding them from sunlight and effectively hiding their wings.

== Miscellaneous ==

Several historically prominent and particularly well-esteemed wizards are
known to have lived to unusually old ages before disappearing suddenly, leading
several scholars to independently conclude that they were actually vampires.
Edward Jan Vilsgaard is noted for his contributions to armor durability and
catapult technology, which historians agree was a major factor behind his home
kingdom of Kaldania's stunning and unexpected triumph over the forces of
the self-titled Victor the Magnanimous six centuries ago. In a famous painting,
"Day Hawks," painted 540 years later and depicting a café and its customers in
the early hours of the morning, features a man with a stunning likeness to the
old conjurer, all the way down to the large scar on his left cheek he obtained
in his youth. This and several other sightings in works of art have lead some
vampires to the conclusion that his magical gift came from becoming a vampire,
and that he left Kaldania rather than be discovered as an immortal being.
They suspect that he has been enjoying a long retirement and is simply taking
a moment every decade or two to 'painting-bomb' a scene when he sees an artist
on the streets.


============ NOTES FOR WRITING  ================
And yes, all of that was stuff I had in mind to write about. TL;DR: No, they don't turn to ash, but they do get tanned really easily (callback to "Jitsu Wa Watashi Wa," a manga I enjoyed). Eye color I'm not sure about yet. I'm leaning towards yes, and they can disguise it magically. They definitely do become more pale, but if it's a black person who becomes a vampire they don't automatically become white. They are pretty difficult to kill but not impossible. Their canines do enlarge, but not into full-blown super-obvious fangs (they just look like relatively large and sharp human ones). Stake through the heart will of course kill them. There is a correlation between intelligence/strength and vampirism, but no direct causal link has been proven. They can walk on holy ground, (but only if invited, if indoors); however, most people don't realize this and so they will ask a suspected vampire to enter a church or similar.


