= Esper =

Espers are celestial wanderers. Relatively mysterious, a group of them arrived
in the land many generations ago. Even their own kind is not certain of the
Espers' origins, but it is thought there must be many more among the stars.

For some reason, much of their early history on this planet has been forgotten.
The espers themselves have no idea why they are there, but only have a deep
affinity for the night sky and the stars.

== Physiology ==

Light of foot, they seem to be more nimble than humans in a pinch, but lack
their stamina. Physically, they are streamlined. Humanoid in shape, they
are bipedal and stand on narrow, angular feet which are indistinct from their
legs. They are toe-less and pointed at the tip, and simply seem to be a bent
continuation and termination of the leg above. They have slender hands, like
those of an elf. Their legs and arms are flexible and almost prehensile, but
still contain segments of bones much like those of a snake or a human vertebra.

They adapt to their environments quickly - at some point after their settlement
on earth, fossil evidence suggests that their bones, once hollow like those of
birds, became more solid in order to be resilient to wear and tear. Now they
are still able to leap to higher places than most humans, but with less chance
of broken bones upon landing than was likely faced by their early ancestors.

Their faces are streamlined and noseless. Their eyes are slanted and solid in
colour ('true' espers do not have sclera, although their offspring with other
races often do), with colours ranging from a pale yellow through shades of red
and into a pure black. Common skin colors are white, gray, and black. While
they do not have hair, the historical of intermingling between them, humans,
elves, and other mammalian species of domestic origin has led to
frequent occurrence of natural hair within the species, even between two
hairless partners where at least one has some earth-based ancestry.
Approximately 60% if beings that identified as espers in a recent
study had hair.

Between this and the fashion of hair in other races on the planet,
it is common for hairless espers to purchase wigs or use transformative
magics to gain hair for cosmetic purposes. White hair and white hair with
a slight pink or blue dye are often in vogue among both males and females,
though other colorations are found both naturally and artificially as well.




==

Espers form deep emotional and intellectual bonds with their partners, and
usually try to have a partner for life. Alternative relationships are not
unheard of, but occur at similar rates to the human population. Their people
is one of thoughtfulness, 


Espers are usually on good terms with other races, although they are sometimes
mistrusted

Espers frequently bond with other species, to the extent that it is thought
there is no currently living example of an esper without influence from any of
the earthly races.

